here we go hello and welcome to news
desk the conflict on the border between
Israel and Lebanon has been on and off
for decades but since the Hamas Terror
attacks on Israel on October the 7th
last year relations between lebanon's
militant group Hezbollah and Israel
appear to be at Breaking Point with
fears that there could be a full scale
War here's the head of the UN Antonio
G's warning of just that
I felt compelled today to voice my
profound concerns about
escalation between Israel and Hezbollah
along the Blue
Line escalation in continued exchanges
of
fire and escalation in Bello's rethoric
from both sides as if an allout war was
imminent the risk for the conflict in
the Middle East to Biden is real and
must be
avoided when rash move when
miscalculation could trigger a
catastrophe that goes far beyond the
border and frankly Beyond
imagination so Antonio gares there
really spelling out what is at risk
there on the border between Israel and
Lebanon with that Lebanese militant
group Hezbollah um some countries like
Canada for example have already told
their citizens they need to get out of
Lebanon so it's been taken yeah very
very seriously um and we are discussing
all this today on news desk we are
wondering you know what could War be
avoid avoided is there a way even
towards peace in that region hello I'm
Alex Forest Whiting and I'm Michelle
Stockman and I will be paying special
attention to the chat today to look at
your comments to look at your questions
and make you a part of the discussion
and I thank the hundreds of you out
there who have already commented on our
community post I want to highlight One
exchange that really stood out to me uh
this is first between shut up 2751 I
love that name um who said we can only
hope that the prospect of so much
destruction in the event of an Israel
Lebanon war would act as a deterrent
against war and responding to shut up is
Tommy Moore who says never will never
will happen so that leads me to you
amyan you've been reporting in Israel
and Lebanon over the past year so should
people be worried are we entering into
new territory here yeah that is a very
good question actually I just had an
idea can you share my screen right now
because I have this really interesting
map from uh the Washington Institute and
on this map you can see basically all of
the attacks crossroader attacks that
have occurred uh just since October 7th
when Hamas uh went on a rampage uh Hamas
which is considered a terrorist
organization by many Western countries
um killing at over 700 civilians and uh
several hundred IDF members um which
triggered um these crossb attacks hezb
striking first Israeli Israeli troops
retaliating but look at all this is just
since um October 7th why has this not
led to a war I mean in a lot of other
countries if one missile lands inside
your territory it escalates into an
allout War um but it hasn't because
there's these rules of engagement that
have been going on basically uh since
the last war between Hezbollah and
Israel and uh it's something that both
sides have basically tolerated people
who live in that border area don't live
in their they they often have to flee
their homes because of these missiles
Landing in their backyards or even on
their houses sometimes but why we're
talking about this now is because of the
rhetoric basically um starting just last
week things have ramped up very quickly
to the point where Israel's foreign
minister says they're on the verge of
changing the rules of engagement here
and are ready for a full-scale war um
you had the IDF the Israeli Defense
Forces saying that they had approved a
plan to basically invade Southern
Lebanon and attack Hezbollah and settle
this once and for all doesn't mean that
the government has approved the plan and
that they're going to go in but
basically they're saying we have a
working plan and at the snap of a finger
we could go in and you'd be finished
Hezbollah and Hezbollah basically said
the same thing back to them um that they
would fight a rule without War uh War
without rules um and we can hear some of
that a bit later com that's why this
seems to be getting out of control to
where Antonio gas has to comment on this
a lot of people weighing in saying it's
inevitable other people saying wait wait
wait war is never inevitable there's
always a way to avoid this and um that's
that's really the major con uh
conversation happening in the Middle
East right now but it has in the norm
that you know it's normal that missiles
are being traded back and forth but
what's got people worried is this
ramping up of the rhetoric which we're
going to drill down into today um so
please everybody send us your questions
about that so that we can ask amian and
the other people who will be joining us
later um and Alex will introduce them in
just a minute first I want to make sure
that cherry uh gets everybody voting on
our poll question today right um our
poll question today is the escalation on
the Lebanon isra rest in whose hands and
there are four options Israel Hezbollah
us and Iran or conflict is in effable so
um don't forget to vote and we will talk
about the result later great thank you
very much Cherry and as well as Amy and
we've got some other um good guests who
will be joining us we will have Rebecca
ritters who is a DW correspondent she's
actually based in Jerusalem and is also
spent time in Lebanon so we'll be
hearing from her shortly and then a
little bit later we will be speaking to
somebody um who I'm very interested to
hear from and that's mcran Raba uh from
the American University of Beirut and he
will be um looking helping us sort of
look at this from a bit of a a bigger
standpoint more of a geopolitical stand
and perhaps the what role um for example
Iran and the US are playing in this so
do uh please stay with us for all of
that but Amy and first of all to you we
we've just heard you talking about um
you know why we are discussing this
particular topic today but I would
really love to know how we got here in
the first place what's really kicked all
this off in the past few months well let
me start at 200
BC oh boy that's the thing with a lot
this is going to be a long news to
everybody get sitting down get your
water no go ahead keep it short Aman
keep it short I said 200 BC I'm not
going that far but no um as with a lot
of conflicts in the Middle East this
goes back to Colonial times there's a
lot of places that we could start um but
obviously for the sake of brevity we're
going to I could start um talking about
the escalation from October 7th because
that's when we really saw a lot of these
attacks happening that you saw on that
map earlier so October 7th Hamas uh
breaks across uh the Gaza border massacr
Israeli civilians uh and Military takes
200 people hostage and right afterwards
Israel starts bombing Gaza in a way that
we haven't seen before for ever um
Hezbollah is in Lebanon it's not it's
the country that's North of Israel um
has been involved in conflicts with
Israel before it's a militia very
powerful uh militia it's not actually a
part of the uh um Lebanese military it
actually has a lot of uh disagreements
with Lebanon with the state of Lebanon
and Lebanese military um but they are in
solidarity with um Hamas and with the
pal what they call the Palestinian cause
so right after Israel started bombing
Gaza Hezbollah in solidarity um launched
its own attack um under the opes of
distracting Israel's military so that
they're fighting fighting a two-front
war this was announced if you can show
the map again I think this is important
um the place where that first strike
happened actually I can make this
bigger
um yeah here we go I'm gonna make that
bigger for you the place where the first
strike
happened was
here this region I'm going to zoom out
again is actually an occupied uh well
internationally recognized occupied
Lebanese territory it's part of what the
International Community recognizes as
Syria um but Syria says that actually
belongs to Lebanon it's called the Sheba
Farms um so this was the place where
they decided to get involved in the
conflict this first attack here um by
Hezbollah on an Israeli uh Defense
Forces um I think it was a radar system
something like that it was a military
Outpost that triggered a retaliation
retaliation from Israel and since then
we've seen hundreds and hundreds of tit
fortat retaliations between both sides
uh the death toll is actually way off
balance it's um a lot of Hezbollah
Fighters have been killed um that number
is over well over 300 Hezbollah Fighters
as well as over 80 uh Lebanese civilians
in this border area that you can see
here and on the Israeli side you have 25
deaths altogether um 10 civilians and I
think
15 um
15 uh where do I have it uh I'm going to
correct myself later if I can find that
but it's it's about half half civilians
and Israeli military um so
how where we got in the last week was
that uh after these these kind of
established Rules of Engagement um you
saw an escalation where Hezbollah um
they released this video Drone footage
of hia which is in Israel uh basically
bragging that we can fly a drone over
this uh Israeli city and this uh very
important International port and is
Israeli military can't shoot us down
we've got that I think I think we' got
that footage that we can show um it's a
propaganda video keep that in mind um we
don't really know how they filmed it um
but basically they released this video
and the implication here is that we if
we can fly a drone over it to film it we
can also attack it um Israel was very
concerned about this and uh they
responded very aggressively Israel cat
um he tweeted and if you can share my
tweet um share my screen and I can show
you this tweet he says basically that
nasala boasts today about filming the
ports of hypa hia operated by
International companies from China India
and threatens to attack them we are very
close to the moment of decision to
change the rules against Hezbollah and
Lebanon in an allout War Hezbollah will
be destroyed and Lebanon will be
severely h hit the state of Israel will
pay a price on the front and home fronts
but with a strong and United Nation and
the power of the IDF we will restore
security to the residents of the north
now like I said earlier this was
followed by announcement that they had
uh drawn up a plan to invade and then
what you see most recently is that
Netanyahu is saying that they're winding
down um the fighting in Gaza and they're
going to take some of that military
power the IDF soldiers who were fighting
in Gaza and move them to the northern
border
um to secure that area and bring back
the tens of thousands of Israelis who
are forced to flee their homes uh keep
in mind um people in Lebanon would also
like to go back to their homes almost
between 80 and 100,000 people are
estimated to have left their homes in
that area near the border yeah I'm in
we've got a question from uh do 97 here
that relates to this so you're talking
about you know both sides talking about
um escalating the conflict the question
here is what is to gain on both sides
the case of the
war the yeah there's a lot of lot to
gain and a lot to lose and Israel cats
pointed this out in his tweet it says
that there would be a lot of losses on
the home front and the military
acknowledging that there would be a lot
of Civilian deaths if they had an allout
war with Hezbollah um what's to what's
to gain on hezbollah's side um they are
basically their whole ideology revolves
around fighting with Israel I mean it
was formed that we can talk a little bit
later about what Hezbollah is because
that's a huge question everybody wants
to weigh in on what Hezbollah is because
it's kind of a unique thing um it's this
super powerful militia that is a force
of its own in the Middle East it doesn't
do what the Lebanese government wants it
to do obviously doesn't do what Israel
wants it to do it basically does what
Iran wants it to do and uh Iran has
every interest in keeping Israel
distracted with a fight on its northern
border so that it doesn't um again
involved in Iran's uh Internal Affairs
and so you could talk all day about what
is the interest of Hezbollah but
basically um Israel wants to secure its
border and get rid of this shame of
having 880,000 or I forget how many
thousands of civilians have left the
Border area um when I was in Israel last
time we were in a hotel in Jerusalem and
those families just living in hotels on
government money the government is
sponsoring these families to live in
hotels um because they can't live in in
Border towns and they can't carry on
their lives there and the economy is
dead these are ghost towns because of
the Rockets being launched from
I'd really like to um hear from
hezbollah's reaction to what you were
just saying um what the for Ministry and
then Netanyahu were talking about um in
terms of you know moving troops closer
yeah after this R Ric was ramped up of
course nasala Hassan nasala he's the
head of Hezbollah he's kind of um a
religious figure uh for Shia Muslims in
Lebanon and um we can play what he had
to say after this escalation
they have to wait for us on the ground
in the air and in the
sea we have said this before and I will
say this again today if the wars and
post on Lebanon the resistance will
fight without control without rules and
without a
ceiling so pretty clear
there yeah and what we'll talk about
later in the scenari of what is actually
going on here um it's hard to tell what
is deterrence and what is a threat yeah
because a warning is not necessarily a
threat um so when Israel says we've
drawn up War plans that's most mostly
meant to scare Hezbollah and when
Hezbollah says uh we're g to we would
fight a war without rules there's a
little asterisk there and he says if
Israel starts the war right so both
sides are saying if the other side
starts the war we're going to go all out
and destroy your country etc etc but
both sides so far have said we don't
want an allout War well this is a good
point now to bring in Rebecca ritters
who is a DW correspondent she's based in
Jerusalem um hi Rebecca thank you so
much for being with us and I think you
were listening to some of that
conversation already um and Amy and did
also mention what Netanyahu that's the
uh Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu said I think it was just on
Sunday actually uh about moving his
plans possibly to move more troops to uh
that order with Lebanon let's just
listen to what he had to say and then
I'd love to get your reaction
Rebecca after the intense phase is
finished we will have the possibility to
move part of the forces North and we
will do this first and foremost for
defensive purposes and secondly to bring
our evacuated residents home if we can
we will do this diplomatically if not
we'll do it another way but we will
bring all the residents home from both
the North and the South
I mean it's within a
month the end of the phase of intense
fighting very
soon so Rebecca what's your take on what
Netanyahu was saying
there well there's a couple of things to
consider there Alex and one is of course
who he's speaking to there he's talking
on this particular Israeli Channel that
is considered pretty much a Netanyahu
mouthpiece if you will it's very
favorable to Benjamin Netanyahu and he's
talking very much to his base now that
was actually the first interview he has
done in Hebrew to the Hebrew media and
of course he's under increased pressure
to trying to like as Aman was just
saying to get these people these between
60 and 70,000 people that have been
evacuated from along those border areas
or from along that border area I should
say um back to their houses and there's
a lot of anger among what obviously
those communities but but wider into
Northern Israel and really across the
country country about the fact that
these people have been out of their
houses for so long and it's still not
safe for them to return so he's
obviously speaking very much to his base
there and he's trying to get that uh
that you know opinion across in that
first Hebrew media interview um yeah I
mean I think that's probably the most
important thing about that particular
interview that he did but it's in
keeping with what I mean was just
discussing in this ramping up of
rhetoric and that is certainly something
uh that he's been saying but we of
course know and we've heard time and
time again that Benin Netanyahu is
saying we are not going to leave Gaza
until we finish Hamas so that is has
been changing in the re in recent days
we're now looking to this potential
space of the Gaza war and just what that
entails we don't exactly know yet but
it's certainly a withdrawal of a lot so
that Focus can be put more up onto that
northern border and did have question
have question Carina Vina uh speaking
she's uh one of our um viewers who who
loves to participate in news Des so I
definitely want to get a question from
karolina uh speaking of Netanyahu um he
has there have been several um I would
say sources or people accusing him of
prolonging the conflict so that he can
maintain hold on power meaning that
conflict with Hamas so um the question
is if he
expands into another conflict with
Hezbollah um is that does that mean that
he's just trying to stay in power or
will these conflicts end if Netanyahu
steps down that's what karolina is
asking so I'll put that to you Rebecca
uh okay I mean you know obviously I
don't have the crystal ball so to be
able to give an a 100% answer is is
really difficult to say but one thing is
definitely true that okay yes definitely
Vu Netanyahu it is the received wisdom
so many people here saying that he is
trying to cing on to power he doesn't
want to face the music in a post Gaza
War scenario and he is trying to keep
these conflicts going that's perhaps
slightly too strong but that he is um
that he's in his political benefit to
keep those going so that he doesn't have
to face the commissions of inquiry uh
into the failings that led to October 7
and his handling of the war and the
hostage situation the agreements there
but really I mean the war in Gaza and
increasingly a potential war in the
North is is is an opinion that much of
the Israeli Society the the military and
the political uh Elite are really on the
same the same page more or less when it
comes to these conflicts I mean it is
still um popular although Israeli
opinion is sort of Shifting to accept a
deal with Hamas because people really
want to see those hostages returned and
they are pushing for that that that
voice is certainly getting louder in
Israel um but really the the support for
the war remains strong um and from my
reporting on the northern border and
even polling that we've seen recently
you know support for a conflict in the
north uh is also there I think people
see that as as really and it's
inevitable that's how people feel and
that is how they frame it to me when
I've spoken to people in the north that
they feel that those communities just
won't be able to go home I've spoken to
some people that were evacuated who said
you know it's not that we necessarily
want war but we will not move back even
for a political solution if there's a
political solution we still won't feel
safe enough you know that's what we had
before and we were seeing skirmishes on
the border and we don't think that's
going to go away now we need to finish
this we need to push Hezbollah back
before we'll return home so I think even
if Netanyahu were not ow many of the
decisions that are being made would
would remain the same and you've spent a
lot of time as well um Rebecca or some
time in Lebanon um and that is a country
in a very different situation it's had
an economic crisis um you know really
struggling struggling even with having a
functioning government what's the
feeling there among the Lebanese about
the possibility of there being a full
out war with
Israel uh I haven't been to is for quite
some time but the people Lebanon you
mean you've been in Lebanon I'm living
in Israel obviously here I haven't been
to leban on for for a couple of years
now but definitely when I speak to
people from there I mean there's a
there's a great deal of fear it's not
something that the
country could H it can really handle it
is not in a position to be in an allout
conflict with Israel it would certainly
see a you know a huge civilian death
toll and infrastructure damage that the
it you know it may not be able to
recover from certainly not uh in the
years to come so people there's
obviously a lot of concern it's not
something that I would say the majority
of Lebanese want to see happening they
are hoping for a diplomatic solution
they are hoping for a way out of this
before you know standing here in the
precipice on the brink of War they are
hoping for a way out I would say that is
the received wisdom that's certainly the
majority view there now that does fall a
little bit along searan lines I mean
there's a lot more support for Hezbollah
within the Shia Community um so that you
know the the polling figures even show
the discrepancy there but but by and
large thei civilians people on the
street they don't want to see a war with
Israel I mean is that I know you haven't
been there for a few months but when you
were in Lebanon what was the what was
the feeling on the ground there just
when all this was beginning to kickoff
in in Gaza well it was extremely tense I
was in Beirut uh I was sent there by DW
actually to help the bureau because
there was a big speech by Hassan nasala
the leader of Hezbollah it was the first
time he was speaking publicly since the
October 7th Terror attacks um by Hamas
after um this this kind of tit fortat
had escalated and people didn't really
know how to interpret that was he going
to give the speech and declare war on
Israel or was he going to um deescalate
uh so I I went there not really knowing
if the war was going to break out or not
and I was in Beirut which is a a it's a
like a mosaic of religions and different
um like uh political alliances and
everything and Hezbollah has a foothold
in the south of Beirut but really it's
diverse City and a lot of people hate
Hezbollah because they don't want a war
with Israel the country like you said is
economic in economic ruins they know
that they would lose a war with Israel
everybody knows that even Hezbollah
knows that because their military just
isn't big enough they don't have an
economic means uh well I can just show
you a video of kind of like what was
happening at the time um and this was
back in this was uh the very beginning
of November so uh nasara had released a
statement on October 7th um supporting
Hamas but he hadn't actually uh talked
yet and he hadn't really um Talks by
Nala are this huge thing in Lebanon
because he makes these big uh speeches
that last like an hour and a half and
sometimes he says something that scares
everybody like there's going to be War
sometimes he kind of de-escalates and um
he has a lot of supporters in Beirut who
um if you can play this video you can
see this is something I posted to
Instagram but basically you could see
him on the TV and just finished
speaking can't hear it so well but
people are people are firing uh rifles
into the air so this is a tradition in
Lebanon when after he had stopped
speaking then just when he started he
started were in it so it was like uh our
leader is speaking and they started
firing rifles in the air a lot of his
supporters had gathered but basically he
spoke for an hour and a half and what he
said was um we're in solidarity with
Hamas but it's we had nothing to do with
it they didn't know about the attack he
said um we're not going to do anything
more than we're doing because we're
already fighting for Hamas he said that
we're obeying the uh Rules of Engagement
with Israel and we're not going to go
beyond that and so basically he said a
lot without saying anything
um somebody even uh tweeted afterwards
that the N speech could have been an
email that went viral because it was a
lot of nothing and people were relieved
there was like literally uh some
journalists um went out for drinks
afterwards because they're like hey
World War I didn't start so it was a big
celebration because yeah it's it is so
weird to see in uh Beirut how Hezbollah
which is this powerful militia is hated
by so many people because they feel like
it's this
wild card that could start a war with
their powerful neighbor and get them all
killed I mean it wouldn't be the first
time Israel has bombed Beirut and killed
a lot of civilians so they W don't want
that to happen again and can I can I ask
a clarifying question here this also
came in from the chat uh a little
earlier this is from Phil dq9 MC asking
more about the relationship between
Hezbollah and the government of Lebanon
literally asking is Hezbollah Lebanon I
think there's you know some basic
confusion out there as to what the
relationship actually is and how
powerful they are compared to each other
mhm um Hezbollah is the most powerful
military institution in Lebanon but it's
also a political party um it runs the
airport for example so when I flew there
it was Hezbollah police basically who
took my passport and gave me the little
stamp and everything um so they are an
established institution uh they're way
bigger in the Lebanese Army um they
controlled basically the south of the
country and they're supported by by two
forces the uh Shia Muslims in Lebanon
and by Iran so that's where they get
most of their funding from Iran and um
some a little bit from Shia Muslim
Community within Lebanon and so there
are this strange entity that is like
super powerful and um can threaten war
with a neighbor and um they basically
what they say goes in southern Lebanon
but they're only a a minority political
party in Lebanon they had a majority for
a while but they lost it and they're
very unpopular among Christians among
Sunni Muslims um among secular uh
Lebanese and uh it's just very strange
going to Beirut which is like a modern
bustling Metropolis with Christians and
atheist and nobody has to we you know
it's like it's not what you it's not
like a fundamentalist Muslim country um
especially not in Beirut and then you
have this uh militia that is like
dedicated to holy war essentially I mean
that's the rhetoric but it's also
interesting to see how um the Lebanese
even even they hate Hezbollah they
recognize that it's one of the most
powerful functioning institutions in the
country and there's not that much you
can do about it because Lebanese
politics um has a lot of dysfunction in
it and Hezbollah functions basically
that's not a good thing but people
recognize that and let's just bring
Rebecca back into this Rebecca because
you've also spent some time in Lebanon
um we know that um Hezbollah um did
actually have a parliamentary majority
up until 2022 and then lost it um but
are they still very much in control of
the country from from where you're
sitting I mean there
certainly yeah I mean as Amy was just
saying I mean there the fact that they
are stronger than the Lebanese Army puts
them also in gives them a lot of control
and anecdotally in in terms of support
they don't have majority support in the
country overall as I mean was expressing
there with the Shia and Sunni and
Christian communities rather and
obviously secular as well but you know
the economy in Lebanon has been
struggling so hard and Hezbollah have
they provide a lot of services so there
are members of the community I mean
anecdotally I was there in the aftermath
of uh the blast or or I'll say actually
the time that I was there a year later
after the blast actually more so there
were people I was speaking to who
couldn't find get medication blast being
at that Port you're talking about yes
sorry that of course yeah the blast at
the port in uh what was it now 2020 I
think it was um and so in in in in
around 2022 the economy is you know
really really struggling it's you know
completely bombing people can't get
medications and that you know you speak
to people on the street who were like oh
I'm looking for XY Z for my family
member and they would go to D the the
southern uh Shia neighborhood in Beirut
that where has bu uh uh basically
operate to go toes there to to get stuff
because it was being brought in Via Iran
uh you know for for the year for the
support for his head brother of
supporters basically for their base and
other people also benefiting from that
so in some ways people in
Lebanon because the government itself is
is so ineffectual for many it just it
does often rely on some of the support
that he has but it certainly doesn't
mean that people there agree with the H
buers policies and the way that they
conduct themselves they're grossly
unpopular when you speak to people on
the street and you did just mention that
Iran and also Amy and you mentioned
hezbollah's links with
Iran the the group has been very very
clear about its links with Iran hasn't
it yeah that's right the um I don't know
if we have this do we have the yeah I
think we have that I think we've got um
a a clip from um nasala so that's again
the head of um of the group of Hezbollah
from 2016 which we can um which we can
listen to now hopefully Wade can play
that to us
so that was uh we obviously had
subtitles there um but what he was
saying was that everything comes from
Iran so very very clearly spelled out
then yeah I think that that's a huge
factor in this because um Hezbollah
cannot win a war against Israel not any
um military terms that I know of and I
think Lebanese understand that but the
reason why Hezbollah can continue to
threaten Israel is because it feels like
it Iran has its back and Iran and
Hezbollah fighting a war with Israel is
something that definitely scares Israel
and then you have on top of that if Iran
gets involved and the us would get
involved and here's what I think a lot
of people are very freaked out about
this escalating conflict in the Middle
East because obviously if Hezbollah does
something that triggers Israel to invade
then you're not talking about just a
conflict on that border you're talking
about Iran possibly getting involved us
possibly getting involved and all of a
sudden you have a World War on your
hands I'm not saying it's going to
happen but that's why we're talking
about it that's why people are
particular worried about it yeah you've
talked about borders uh in terms of
Israel wanting to protect its border and
Lebanon also um and Hezbollah down near
that border um we have a question here
from Levante David who wants to know is
this war about terrorist
or is it more a war about religion not
that it is a war but this conflict
between them right now MH um very
interesting and I think we can throw
this also to our expert and maybe
Rebecca can weigh in in this too because
she spent a lot more time with Israelis
on that side of the Border um I think
that for I would say for Israel it is
about um their territorial Integrity
they want to protect their border um and
that's what most people would tell you
anyway um obviously there's very
fundamental religious Israelis who um
see it as a holy war just as
fundamentalist Muslims um on the
Lebanese side would see it as a holy war
uh it's a lot harder for Hezbollah to
say that it's territorial because um
they um yeah because essentially they
started this escalation with the attack
after um
the Hamas attack um saying that it was
solidarity with the Palestinian cause
which then
begs the question so is this ideological
if you're getting involved if you're
attacking a country um out of solidarity
for another movement then what are we
talking about here um and yeah I think
my take would be that Hezbollah itself
is very ideological you can see that
since the very beginning in 1982 when
they were conceived uh they spoke in a
language of Revolution and
anti-colonialism they use that word
colonialism all the time in their early
uh Doctrine talking they you know
sometimes you see pictures of CH Gara
next to Hassan nasala because a lot of
uh Shia Muslims in the area uh see this
as Liberation from Colonial Powers don't
forget that um Lebanon was under the
control of French for a long time and is
what is now Israel was a a British
mandate um so a lot of this modern
conflict happened after the colonial
Powers left and Hezbollah sees this as a
continuation of that but it also seems
to be mixed too because um Hezbollah has
called it a holy war has called for the
destruction of Israel so there's
territory involved in that so these
messages really seem to be mixed many
ways yeah yeah May yeah maybe Rebecca
you would like to pitch in on that just
listen I actually think that was no I
was just actually listening to what Aman
had to say and I thought yeah I would
say that's pretty s especially the post
Colonial thing I think is is a really
important factor that we you know we
can't put too much importance on because
this is something that you know the at
the
founding as Abby was saying when they
were founded this is something they were
saying that they you know wanted to make
sure that the French and the Americans
were all out of there they this is uh
it's a really big part of the puzzle um
but I do think it is several things
they're completing as you're as you're
trying to make that point Michelle I
think that's really that's important for
everyone to
remember thank you very much well maybe
just at this moment we will have a
little check with cherry to find out
what what's going on in the chat and if
there are any um particular repeating
comments or themes that are coming out
yeah there are um some of them actually
now that you mentioned it um um first of
all many people Express the wish that um
there would be no more war that um they
hope that um Peace will uh happen
anytime uh soon um but there also
questions about actually um the roles of
international power in this um conflict
between Israel and Hezbollah um for
example there is a question from um
karolina felini that Michelle also
mentioned um does un have any solutions
to end these conflicts um there are also
comments mentioning um the role of the
US and Iran and saying that this is a
proxy war um so um yeah they want to
know more about this aspect okay well we
are waiting for um our guest who is mam
Raba um assistant professor at the
American University of Beirut but at the
moment um we haven't managed to get hold
of him but hopefully we will hear from
him soon but just keeping that going as
you are sitting around this table uh Amy
and you're not allowed to escape maybe
we could just bring in about a question
about the UN and the role um because the
un's role with uh Israel and Lebanon in
the past has been strong hasn't it and
it dates back um a couple of decades
yeah uh let's go back to the map
actually because I think that's really
helpful to see um where the border is
and how this has to do with uh the
possible scenarios for conflict um this
is the what's interesting is this is a
map of the attack so the blue dots here
are um Israeli attacks in Lebanon and
the yellow dots are Hezbollah attacks in
uh on Israeli Defense Forces and if you
look at the line between the yellow and
the blue what you're seeing here is the
uh Blue Line uh this is the un's
established um border between Lebanon
and Israel uh what's interesting is that
there you can't speak of this border as
the same as the border of France and
Germany for example because there um it
isn't like a fixed point on the map
things here can change what it is is the
UN said after the 2006 war between
Hezbollah and Israel um they drew this
line and said here's where the conflict
ceases and anybody who goes across this
line is entering the other country's
territory anybody who's on the other
side of the line um it works both ways
basically um and that line is called the
the blue line that's right and it's
actually demarcated by blue barrels that
are up on sticks and uh what's
interesting is that there's a fence got
some pictures actually those if we can
just show those pictures because they
really are B on sticks aren't
they but sorry keep keep keep I thought
we were going to play the video oh we
are playing it yeah
this line represent the blue line and
don't cross it because any crossing of
the line mean violation of the line
people often think that the technical
fence is the blue line and they can walk
right up to it but this is absolutely
wrong the technical fence is not the
blue line but the most important thing
is never cross the blue line
that's something to remember do not
cross the Blue Line although it happens
uh very often in terms of drones and
missile strikes um but that's what is
considered the um unofficial Rules of
Engagement but what's interesting here
is that the Blue Line exist both uh
countries recognize it they launch
attacks very often on the other side uh
what you can see here is Israel goes way
deeper into Lebanon than uh Hezbollah
goes into Israel part of that is because
of the sophistication their weapons lot
of these can you show us again cuz I
think we didn't see it on the screen yet
show us again how far that yeah so this
is Lebanon up here and you can see the
blue dots these are Israeli attacks all
the way up into Northern Lebanon there's
several in Beirut these are
assassinations I think this one was an
assassination of a Hamas operative this
is just since October 7th and you have
this huge area of the South where Israel
is striking with drones several
journalists have been killed journalist
family members have been killed a lot of
these by drone very sophisticated um
targeted drone attacks Hezbollah has
launched pretty deep inside Israel but
not as often a lot of their attacks are
limited to the Border areas and I think
that reflects why you see such a higher
death toll on the Lebanese side but
going back to the un's role here they
established this border but they also
said um when the war ended in 2006 um
was the war between Hezbollah and Israel
they tried to establish a demilitarized
zone basically the Lebanese Army and the
UN would Patrol this area here um that's
near the border so this is very general
do not uh print this out and send it to
anybody in Lebanon but generally an area
around here would be considered uh
demilitarized and heah would not be
allowed to enter this territory and uh
launch attacks on Israel but that
obviously has not happened Hezbollah um
goes right up to the fence and sometimes
Palestinian militant groups go as well
there's hundreds of thousands of pales
inian refugees living in Lebanon um who
are already also party to this conflict
they go right up to the border and
sometimes shoot just like rifles across
the border do we know what the rules of
engagement are for the UN peacekeeping
troops that are there I mean these are
guys from 49 different countries there's
10,000 right do we know what they're
supposed to be
doing that's a that's a really good
question what I I do know that they um
patrol the area but it's very clear um
just from what I've heard from people in
the area and also when you're trying to
travel to the area when I was in Lebanon
in order to go down to the South first
you have to get permission from
Hezbollah you actually like call them up
and say um hey we were going on this
date uh can you have permission they
give you like a little basically um a
little letter so that you can go in the
area so you don't ask the UN if you can
go in the area you ask Hezbollah so that
tells you what you need to know about
who controls that area thank you very
much um for that we are very pleased now
that we have got mam Raba who is on uh
the line down the line for us assistant
professor at the American University of
Beirut thank you very much for joining
us uh we very much appreciate it um I
would just like to just you know go back
about what we're talking about um
whether you know further conflict could
be avoided between Israel and Le and
Lebanon um and talk in a in a moment
about what the scenarios uh could be
there but for you personally living in
Lebanon in Beirut does it feel different
at the moment does it feel like uh
possibly Lebanon is on the verge of a
fullscale war or is this just business
as
usual well actually I was one year old
when when the Israelis invaded in 82 and
I witnessed to a number of Israeli
operations into Lebanon all of them
centered on Israel trying to get its
security back unfortunately I think all
of this military operations has put
people like me in the state of limbo
because every few years we are reminded
that ultimately Lebanon lacks any
sovereignty and that whatever happens in
the region uh Regional players are using
the weakness as well as the diversity of
Lebanon to weaponize it against the
people of the region be it the Israelis
or even the syrians to a certain extent
it's very hard to see part of your
country being shelled where other parts
are actually quote unquote safe however
the entirety of the country or the idea
of Lebanon is no longer there for a
number of reasons first of all we are
witnessing one of the most worst
economic collapse in the history of
modern Lebanon in addition to the fact
that while many people look at hisbah as
a local actor I for myself and my own
personal experience with this Iranian
sponsored militia is that basically it's
the tip of the sphere for the Irani rary
guard which have basically dismantled
many of the countries in the leant
including my own country leanon this is
why
gloomy uh atmosphere or this so-called
Drums of War makes it hard to
concentrate and to live a life of
normaly
unfortunately so do you think further
conflict um between Israel is inevitable
then well anyone who can tell you what
will happen is basically lying to you we
have been following up on this conflict
from day one everyone is hoping that
this conflict will simply Peter out and
that ironically Iran and hisbah are
betting on Israeli democracy as well as
US democracy meaning that everyone is
hoping that someone will topple
Netanyahu and that basically somewh more
rational or more doish will take over
however I believe from following all the
rhetoric from both sides the October 7
Fiasco and the fallouts of the Hamas
attack on Israel has transformed Israel
into a kind of I I use it here as a very
descriptive as a Rabbid dog or a Mad Dog
they are willing to do anything to bring
back the idea that they can protect
themselves and unfortunately what
happened with Hamas is completely
different what's happening in Lebanon
meaning that the northern front Israel
has been preparing for a potential war
with hisbah and this is why the military
establishment here has no problem going
to war because it's not only about
politics as some people might say say
everyone is saying that Netanyahu wants
to go to war to prolong his political
career I think it's more deeper than
that even if we don't have a fullscale
confrontation what has transpired in the
last eight months is enough to remind us
that Lebanon is not even living next to
the volcano we are the actual volcano
which can stay dormant for centuries But
ultimately can uh uh can kill us all and
this is something that we need to
certainly take a step back and think
about makram you said that Lebanon is
the volcano that uh conflict there um
could be tripped off um there's a lot of
people on both sides who are ready for
that however there is a comment here I'm
going to read to you from one of our
Watchers here blip news who says the US
Israel and Iran are all in a proxy war
and he's saying these leaders do not
want direct conflict and this is my
biggest question
why well for over a decade the Obama
Administration has been trying to
convince the International Community and
has been able to do so at least with the
Europeans trying to say that the most
destructive element that Iran has this
nuclear uh weapons and this is why the
nuclear deal was brokered in the idea
that once we contain nuclear Iran we can
actually sit down and agree with them on
other things I think the last couple of
years have proven that the real threat
in the region for for regional security
as well as Global Security as you see
what's happening in Yemen with theis is
basically that every country Germany for
example has a defense strategy the
strategy of Iran is basically rather
than allowing them to fight you in Iran
you fight them through a combination of
proxy militias hisbah here is not only a
proxy militia I tend to call them the
Strategic Consultants of Iran meaning
that this outfit who is basically lethal
not because they're Iranian and here I
say it with all due modesty that because
it's they're Lebanese because they take
advantage of the ucational system and
the diversity of the country and the
fact decentralized nature of the
sectarian system has allowed them to
become very lethal and importent tool
for Iran and this is why I think that
Israel has realized that it cannot allow
a entity like hisbah to be on its
northern border as well as operate many
of the militias so I think what the US
Administration has been thinking that
ultimately we can contain or we can
fight limited proxy wars in the region
has proven
INE ineffective because Hamas at the end
of the day actually jumped the gun on
the the AA flood and implicated
basically Iran in a war which it did not
necessarily want to be this full scale
so what so where I just want to be clear
then where do you think this leaves
Lebanon then what what scenarios could
play out
here well uh to be a bit pessimistic
ultimately Lebanon has uh is not on the
table it's actually being searched for
lunch meaning that whatever happens
whatever expires if it's a fullscale war
and destruction will happen in different
parts of Lebanon not only in the south
of Lebanon unfortunately the
International Community as well as the
regional Gulf States will not invest in
a nation which is under the full hemony
and the control of hisbah in ' 06 when
the 1701 United States United Nations
security Council Revolution 1701 was
brokered we had a kind of a government
used to be branded as Pro Western and
the International Community as well as
the Gulf States doubled down on relief
and reconstruction efforts at the moment
Lebanon is much different since' 06 and
unfortunately I think what will happen
that ultimately it will be a kind of a
rogue State because at the end of the
day we are our relationship are severed
with the gulf because of what was
happening between hisbah and Iran on one
side in the gulf and more recently the
the statements of Hassan nah threatening
Cyprus for example will only implicate
Lebanon further and further and add to
its isolation and more importantly I
think that with what's happening in
Ukraine and the entire Globe I think
every country has different
priorities I just want to pick up on one
thing you mentioned there the
1701 um UN resolution and that's what
came off the back of that war in 2006
isn't it between Israel and Lebanon just
to just to clarify
yes of course um and uh I mean what
you're saying is um is it does sound
pretty defeatist I'd just like to bring
in our correspondent Rebecca ritters who
um is joining us as well she is in
Jerusalem I mean what what does this
sound like uh to you Rebecca um of of
what marran was just saying about the
fact that you know for example Lebanon
could will be serve for lunch could be
eaten for lunch it's just not a big
player in this it's it's it's just being
used
I mean you couldn't see me but when he
said that I had little smirk on my face
because I mean it's incredibly sad and a
somebody who has spent quite a bit of
time in Lebanon and really does love the
country and think it has so much to
offer that is certainly the received
wisdom in the feeling that you have that
that Lebanon just doesn't as a country
doesn't have a leg to stand on M I'm I
mean is that is that accurate do you
think to say is there anything that
Lebanon this state can do in order
to get out of the goup of
hezb while I might sound off as a bit
defeatist or gloomy I actually believe
that this is an opportunity because I
think that we should acknowledge that we
have been defeated in the sense that you
cannot contain a militia likeah you
cannot have uh winter and summer under
the same roof so to speak we try to
duplicate the idea of having Hong Kong
which is an economic Prosperity next
door having a Hanoi where you can keep
on fighting and killing it doesn't work
so I believe that going back to the
basics meaning that while people are
scared from ending this diverse system I
think the way to come to to protect this
diversity is to reestablish the idea of
sovereignty and rather than the Lebanese
themselves are to blame for allowing
something like hisbah to mutate their
political system we have a century old
problem that this system hasn't been
living up to the idea of State Building
and unfortunately what we're see
and my problem is with the many of these
militias in the region if you destroy
Hamas orah you don't know what monster
would come out of this ultimately as a
modern citizen of the 21st century I
want the rule of law and one important
thing I don't see it say this lightly
the Arab Israeli conflict should be
solved on just uh premises the idea of
allowing Hamas to hijack the
Palestinians for legitimate cause the
problem with Hamas all of these they
take legit imate demands but they hijack
them for a different
uh course unfortunately and I say this
also with a bit of accuracy Netanyahu
and NASA and all of these people they
belong to the same school that might is
right for me the pillars of a proper
Lebanese a modern Lebanon for my family
or for myself is a lean Lebanon built on
Justice and unfortunately this is not
nowhere to be found but it doesn't mean
that we should stop fighting for that I
have a question for m we still SE no no
justice for the people who were affected
by that blast that we were just talking
about in 2020 still no justice seen
there and the yeah but just just quickly
to clarify for people who might not be
aware by the power sharing agreement
you're talking of course about the conf
confessional system where every
set plays a different Ro right
maybe any a way but the problem is that
this sectarian system which goes back to
the 19th century was not modernized in
the sense that allow proper
participation
and the problem is that these people
people who are the feuder Lords who are
in power basically they belong to the
like you you're talking about people who
resemble like the junkers back in the
18th century Prussia these people
unfortunately don't take responsibility
for many of their actions when you hear
them talk you think that they are
members of the
opposition while in fact many of these
people have been in power since the last
three decades or even
more I'd love to just he from amyan and
I think am wants to put a question to
you as well yeah just to um follow up on
what maam said U basically mam you said
that Hezbollah um when you're being
pessimistic is just uh the spearhead of
Iran's uh Regional power and uh you said
that uh Lebanon is being served up uh on
the plate basically um for the sake of
this greater conflict but two things
that I noticed when I was Lebanon the
first is that has does have support
there uh among um Shia Muslims but also
this sense of like the the downtrodden
they play into this ideology of we're
protecting the people that don't have a
voice they um they offer social services
and things like this and so that's one
thing what can can you tell me about the
can you tell us about the support in
leanon the second thing is um well sorry
I'll let you answer that first that's a
big enough question well technically I I
tend to disagree with the idea of having
support definitely they do have some
sort of grassroot support but how can
you actually gauge this is the is the
electoral ballot boxes enough because at
the end of the day you're not allowed to
run against them and many of the regions
are outside the rule of law and more
more or so here and I have proof to
accuse them of running a narco State
between Lebanon and Syria and Assad
regime these people are responsible for
manufacturing amphetamines and smuggling
them to the to the to the Gulf more so
also the idea is that these people are
somewhat responsible as a political
party and as a militia for the October
for the August 4 beut blast so and more
so the gentleman in the background is my
good friend lman sim a human rights
activist who was killed in the south of
Lebanon in a region controlled byah many
of the people that has fallen victim to
these political assassinations were all
antib anti- Iran and they they fell
victim so ultimately I would not treat
hisbah as a political actor if hisbah
was indeed a political actor we wouldn't
be in this situation because the
obsession of hisbah their DNA was formed
out of rtion guard and this is why their
ultimate aim is to continue operating
whatever happens living to fight another
day certainly they use a sectarian
system as you mentioned the idea talking
on behalf of the shites and they
technically hide behind the shites if
you notice what's happening the Israelis
are praying very smart in the sense that
most of these surgical hits are trying
to avoid civilians but this doesn't mean
that moving forward they will not do
what they did in Gaza because simply at
the end of the day they can get away
with murder andah also tend to say that
we don't care we are representing people
who want to liberate Palestine but what
we have proven in the last eight month
that Iran is not really invested in
Palestine but rather invested in its own
shite sectarian
brand of SE brand of shiism in the
region this is why they always tend to
use the Arabs of the region to protect
their own interests back in Iran can I
jump in here with a question from the
chat uh for you makram um we've been
talking about scenarios that could
possibly happen between Israel and
Hezbollah and a lot of the players
involved a question from Sam o is beyond
Iran and the US are there other
countries or entities that could get
involved on either side and influence
what's going to happen
next well uh I just like to point out
that recently through many of its Mouse
pieces hisbah and Iran has hinted to the
fact that maybe Taliban wanted to join
the fight so in a way the so-called axis
of resistance or the Iranian axis has
the ability to disrupt many of of the
regional security I need to remind you
that when your Amazon package is late
it's because the OES are holding
everyone hostage with the with the
hermit traits so in the end of the day
yes they have the ability to disrupt and
to cause problems and ultimately we have
seen how their many of their sabotage
operations uh can can lead to many of
the Western countries basically being
mobilized to try to stop these cells or
or the idea and more or less if we do
get to the sectarian tension remember
that Isis and alq and all of these
people Justified their
the fact that Iran controls many of the
regions basically Iraq and we've seen
how how this sectarian conflict was very
destructive yes we have a number of
problems if this continues and certainly
I think I don't want to blame the US
Administration on this but someone has
to lead there there's there's actually a
lack of responsibility from the Biden
administration because ultimately they
should double down on The Middle East
because everyone knows that for since
Biden was in the white house he simply
uh pivoted towards uh towards the Orient
and this has led to a kind of a power
vacuum and Ukraine and Russia and
everything that's happening around us is
is anonymous sign that we need to go
back to normany at whatever cost without
shedding more blood and let me just pick
up on that um with we're talking about
um the US and somebody needs to leave
we've had a lot of a flurry of
diplomatic visits including to Lebanon
including uh the German foreign minister
who was there just yesterday U is that
making a difference is diplomacy working
or or are we beyond that from what you
seem to be
saying well I think many of these
diplomats including the the German
foreign minister simply don't want to uh
to invest in the relief efforts if the
actually War breaks out or
reconstruction so they're trying to pre
the conflict but I think it's too little
too late because the real person that
can do change and here I'm not putting
all the eggs on one basket is the US
Special Envoy uh Amos Hawkin Amos Hawkin
now has an offer on the table for the
Israelis but the Israelis don't actually
trust that hisbah
will uh honor their part of the deal
which is basically withdraw their troops
south of the Lan River and basically
kind of do a rehash of the 1701 and this
will include the peacekeepers who I was
listening to you the peacekeepers are
basically hostages forah and Israel in
the sense that these people don't have a
clear Rules of Engagement and many of
the they just Monitor and report so what
I think basically that uh this is only a
Band-Aid solution for a much bigger
hemorrhaging wound so we need to go back
and first of all you have the refugee
problem many of these issues you can't
just throw money at one has to basically
go back to the idea that we have a
problem in Syria Iran equally andah are
much involved in Syria itself and in
Iraq so we need to go back and try to in
a way detox the whole environment not
only try to uh isolate Lebanon because
the problem is not only Lebanon and in
in Gaza but rather the whole mood which
is engulfing the world at the moment but
how do you do that how do you
detox um that that whole area area I
mean it's proved to be so complex so
difficult for decades for
centuries in the sense Lebanon for
example rather than trying to to give
you a kind of what we call a a beauty
pageant response it's not about word
peace but for example in the case of
Lebanon by reconstructing the political
system at the moment we have no
president the presidency has been vacant
even before October 7 so reconstructing
this putting people back in elected
office uh reforming and restructuring
the economic system at least this is in
the case of Lebanon enough to make you
more appealing to the International
Community this Al also applies to Syria
at least within my own neighborhood if I
open the window I want a president who
can actually speak on our behalf it's
not proper for the foreign minister of
Germany to come and speak to the speaker
of parliament it has to she has to go to
the presidential Palace and meet an
elected official as well as a cabinet
that has the confidence and the vote of
the speaker of par speaker the
parliament this is how democracies work
and I think that rather than blaming
everything on the Arab Israeli conflict
many of the nations are to blame for
failing in building proper States many
of the states are good we love them food
is good coming here is good as many of
the people pointed out but ultimately
the elephant in the room is that people
are not taking charge of their own
future but rather betting that
everything will be solved by the
European Union or the us or even the
Arab Gulf with its uh oil money this
doesn't work this doesn't build you
Nations it just gives you an opportunity
to breathe until you are suffocated
again we just heard uh here in the chat
talking about the stakes that are
involved in this conflict uh DeVos says
we're all just a misunderstanding away
from World War III so sad do you think
we're really to that point
makram no not really I think there's a
number of uh there these are fighting
words many of the people use them as a
tactic and I I ultimately believe that
Nala is trying to scare he's very good
at Scare Tactics and psychological
warfare because contrary to what I
believe I think that he doesn't really
have the technical skills but he has the
ability to disrupt the situation so he's
trying to use these words and many of
his operations as a kind of deterrence
but the problem we don't have the Mad
model the mutual assured destruction
model and we don't have the cold door we
are basically trying to replicate the
past rather than having people think
outside the box so definitely there's a
there's this the potential of War
breaking out and the problem is that we
are not running a this is not a science
meaning that people mess up people might
jump the gun if if if they end up taking
the decision as they have been hinting
that they might actually go after Nella
and all of this this might change the
whole ball game
ultimately war is knocking at our door
but at the same time we are in the midst
of the war so it's a it's a mixed mixed
War basically so um in in our um in
answer to our question then that we've
put um for this week's news desk can
Israel and Lebanon avoid further
conflict from what you seem to be saying
the answer is no
yes in a way giving the tools at our
disposal and the way the people are
operating I think that it's unevitable
but doesn't mean that we cannot avoid it
if we have a Hu if we end up changing
the not the rules of the game but
basically understanding what is at stake
and in a way uh getting more
international support and rather than
just being proactive put something real
on the table we can't just
avoid the elephant in the room first of
we have to acknowledge we have a much
bigger problem and basically just like
many of the countries have realized that
either they they put their money where
their mouth is or they just stop coming
to Lebanon we don't want to
internationalize this idea if people
don't really invest on the long run the
problem with the International Community
is that they don't run a marathon they
just run a Sprint and this has allowed
Iran and its agents to actually take
advantage of this so if you don't like
whoever is in power in Germany you wait
for the second election or the third
election and something will change so
people have to realize that you have to
be in this for the long run I'm I'm
curious um yeah go ahead actually I want
to hear what Rebecca has to say Rebecca
you go first is a c sorry I just wanted
to ask you because you know I I I tend
to agree that that we're sort of heading
towards some kind of inevitable conflict
and I'm just wondering what you think
could be put on the table to avoid that
because certainly uh uh the rhetoric
here in Israel and certainly from the
people have spoken to at the border and
I don't know whether you heard me saying
it before is there there's a you know I
think this this resolution 1701 has
never really been fully implemented
certainly not from the Israeli
perspective and many residents here as
well as govern the government are
frustrated with that and I spoke to so
many people who said they wouldn't move
back to those border towns unless there
was an actual military conflict that a
political solution wouldn't be strong
enough because it's been ignored in the
past so I'm just wondering what you see
as a as a potential political solution
way
out well the key word here is political
many of the solutions which have been
used in the past are not political there
are security or intelligence minded
solutions for a political problem so
rather than just trying to contain and
give hisbah legitimacy Ironically in '
06 hisbah did not win the military
confrontation it was able to win mil
kind of political confrontation and get
the legitimacy from the fact that Leon
in '06 had the economy to sustain the
war or we had a kind of a kind of safety
net from the International Community and
the Arab Gulf ultimately I think going
back to the idea that the Palestinians
should get their own State we cannot
allow for a kind of an open air prison
like Gaza to allow for elements like
Hamas to cause another October 7 and
ultimately rather than allowing
Netanyahu to be normalized as a normal
politic we should also remember that we
should not disregard the main idea that
many of these people hide behind the
Arab Israeli conflict so resolving the
Arab Israeli conflict or putting back
the peace process on the table would
Empower voices of liberal thought people
who are actually persecuted and attacked
such as myself for suggesting that
violence is not the way forward I wanted
to actually ask you I'm just touching
I'm sorry no I'm just with you saying
including yourself I was thinking when
when you were talking um in such strong
terms about Hezbollah and Iran whether
you are yourself uh under threat with
with speaking out from
Lebanon well a couple of months ago it
was the fourth time they tried to arrest
me and to accuse me of being an Israeli
agent just for speaking out against
hisbah as I told you my good friend was
killed and many of my friends were
killed by hisbah and I can tell you that
I don't go around a lot because simply
as a university Professor I cannot
afford to have a security detail with me
all the time and this is not only myself
many people who remain silent do so
because they're afraid of being branded
as uh as Israeli agents or simply they
don't want to be knifed like slan rushi
was so yes the intellectual class in
Lebanon even even those who are more
moderate cannot speak out because
Lebanon that was an oasis for freedom
and liberal thought is ultimately now
monitored by Hassan n and and hisbah who
say that nothing is more important than
the beat of the drum and this is why we
all have to March towards war and I this
is something I have refused and I refuse
to double down on violence where we can
actually hope or also dream of of
potential peace the rhetoric coming from
Nala is extremely bellicose as you just
said the the beating of the war drum but
um just looking at the numbers which is
something that uh occurred to me when I
was both in Lebanon and Israel over the
past few months um on the uh Israeli
side 10 civilians have been killed and
15 soldiers and all of these hundreds of
attacks that we saw on the map um on the
Lebanese side 349 Hezbollah operatives
have been killed 64 operatives from uh
Palestinian groups or other militant
groups in Lebanon and 83 civilians by
the latest count um when I was in uh
Israel I think Hezbollah struck uh an F
area a base there killed uh one uh
reservist and then Israel retaliated
with uh Precision drone attacks and
killed multiple Hezbollah operatives as
well as uh family members a grandmother
and two children ended up in the
hospital one of the children died um
when I look at these numbers I think
actually it's Hezbollah that seems the
most afraid of a full out war that
whenever a uh uh an attack like this
happens they're okay to say uh we're
back to the status qu we killed one
Israeli soldier they killed three or
four uh CI civilians in Lebanon plus uh
several high ranking Hezbollah members
but um we're even now is that is that
false or um how are these numbers end up
this way it's actually very accurate
because simply uh the Israelis have
learned since' 06 many of their
surveillance and their technology
ultimately the IDF is using Ai and Big
Data uh they have been using facial
recognition voice
recognition isb's entry into the civil
war in Syria and in Iraq transformed
them from a gorilla operation outfit to
a traditional Army this is what the
Israelis wanted to begin with because
it's easier for them to fight to fight
hisbah to add to this hisbah have been
suffering meaning that the people that
you mentioned the 300 something half of
them are the field commanders which keep
the whole it's the glue that keeps the
whole militia going so ultimately what
is happening here that these people who
are killed including people like kimman
you can't just get them from the
military academy these people have been
killing for the last three four decades
and they need operational experience
which ISB cannot just Fe a new
generation of Fighters This is why as
you mentioned they every time they try
to retaliate it's the idea that this
could be also a face saving operation
and the Israelis will just back away
this won't happen
because the debate within the IDF and
the intelligence community in Israel is
somewhere else these people are still
operating pre October 7 whereas the the
Israelis are talking about a new
approach to the challenge of
Lebanon that's really interesting I
think that um that is exactly the
rhetoric I heard in Israel maybe Rebecca
can also um back that up basically what
I heard in Israel is they there's a
general failure to acknowledge that
Israel was striking uh Lebanon and only
I mean of course in the media it comes
across but um a lot of the people that I
talked to were every time an Israeli was
killed it was like we need to go to war
with uh Lebanon I mean this is
generalization but that's kind of level
of conversation I was
hearing most certainly I mean when you
speak to people I was just in Hyer
recently just to see how people were
feeling after that video that we showed
a little bit of uh the Drone video that
hisbah leased allegedly saying that
they'd been flying a drone over showing
areas that they um you know could and
would attack should Israel go to war
with them and you know that was very
much what I was you hearing people
saying this like we just we have to we
have to be able to let those citizens go
back to their houses we have to do
something to end this Hezbollah threat
and everyone I spoke to actually also
had full confidence in Israeli military
they said we you know I said even given
what happened with October 7 you know
there are some people who say well you
know maybe the Israeli military isn't as
strong as everyone had always perceived
it was certainly a bit of a shock uh a
huge shock a fundamental shock actually
to to Israelis that that such an attack
was able to happen and then you that
everyone still feels completely
protected by the Israeli military and
they feel like they will be protected
and that Israel would win any
confrontation with h when you speak to
the Israeli military I mean they're very
um prag atic about the capabilities of
Hezbollah and they are concerned and in
a briefing that we had oh way back in
the beginning of the war with Hamas
about heesa when it looked like things
could certainly spill over even then you
know you had the Israeli military
saying it is a different kettle of fish
and of course we know we know that we
hasb are a much different uh a much more
advanced uh group than Hamas and they
will be able to inflict a lot more
civilian damage within the country and
also but that that the military sorry I
know that the military would then have
to make decisions about what they could
protect because they would have to be
looking for big infrastructure uh
targets that they would be needing to
protect where they may not be able to
protect you know certain civilian areas
so that they you know they were very
serious about that threat uh and taking
it very seriously but I think most
Israelis feel as though that that Israel
would come out on top and it's the exact
opposite in Beirut right I mean among at
least non Esa supporters uh there's the
feeling that they would lose the war it
would destroy the country that's already
on its last legs I was talking to one
guy who was joking he was telling me Oh
I'm learning how to swim I thought I
thought he was serious but I could tell
he was joking I was like what do you
mean he's like well when the war starts
I'm swimming out on into the sea and
never coming back and I mean it's it's
funny but it's also serious I think a
lot of people are acknowledged that the
Israeli military could do severe
damage to add there was this joke that I
think one minister in the Israeli
cabinet was saying that if hisbah hits
any of our uh Power factories we will
make sure that Lebanon will lose its
electricity and the joke was we don't
have electricity to begin with are
going so there's nothing actually to
lose but the idea of Lebanon because
ultimately if we continue on allowing
hisbah to operate out of Lebanon and to
uh basically threaten global global
affairs
it Lebanon will be branded as hisbah
land rather than Lebanon so we don't
want this and unfortunately I think part
of it is from the fault of the political
establishment which have used hisbah to
hide from the fact that these people are
corrupt and they have been using leonese
resources to stay in power and
ultimately when we went to the streets
on the SE 17th of October 2019 to try to
toble topple the regime it was hisbah
that basically stopped us because
ultimately there's a kind of Ian deal
between corruption and Iranian weapons
and this is something that we need to
address I always say there's a herd of
elephants in the room corruption
sectarianism but there's one elephant
which is armed so it's basically how to
the priorities of dismantling this bomb
without blowing up in our faces and on
that point thank you very much mam Raba
for joining us and for staying with us
for much longer than I said you were so
we really appreciate all of that
your insights and and um also just the
situation that you yourself are finding
yourself in so thank you very much for
joining us uh we do appreciate it um and
just before I let you go Rebecca i' just
love to get a very final thought on what
you have just been just heard there from
Marram did some of that um was that
surprising to hear somebody speaking uh
so openly about the situation that
Lebanon itself is finding itself in
um yes and no I mean no from my personal
experience because when you're in
Lebanon and you talk to people they are
very open and they will speak rather
openly with you but yes to speak
publicly like this it's interesting I
actually uh saw an interview that maam
did the other day and I was discussing
it you know last night or the night
before with some people talking about
this issue and they said I was
explaining what maam had been saying in
this interview and they said whoa you
know like God is he is he worried about
his personal safety and I very careful
cavalierly said um and so that's
actually the question I was going to ask
Alex to to M so thank you for asking
that question about his personal safety
because I was sort of cavalier and said
oh there are plenty of people that
criticize Hezbollah and I really didn't
think about it in the fact that yes but
not so publicly and so I think um it's
it's not surprising but perhaps it is
surprising to be hearing it so openly
and so so in this sort of public forum
thank you so much but I'm not surprised
by the content what he had to
say sadly sadly accurate yeah um thank
thank you Rebecca again for all your
insights we appreciate you being with us
again for a long time much longer than I
said so thank you very much really
appreciate it um we probably need to get
the poll result don't we right yeah I
closed it uh quite some time ago but oh
did you yeah our discussion has been
going so well so I guess I understand um
so uh our poll results we have 646 votes
and most people which is 38% think
Israel um
I mean again let me repeat the question
um the escalation on the Lebanon Israel
border rest in whose hands 36% of the
FKS go to Israel um 23% say conflict is
inevitable 23% says is Hezbollah and 14%
says is us and Iran and actually someone
put a comment saying that we should
separate us and Iran um that's something
that we didn't go into so deep into the
discussion but I appreciate the comment
and yeah will try to improve our choice
in our po question we need more choices
you mean more than four I me one last
takeaway from this very um rounded
discussion from you yeah um maam used
the word at the end of what he was
saying saving faith and that was a word
that I was looking for the whole time
but I'm glad he said it because I think
on both sides um a political solution
probably could be achieved if they found
a way to save facei that's really for a
lot of people that's what it's about um
obviously Israel wants to secure its
border um I do think like after what
we've talked about in this discussion it
does seem pretty apparent uh that
Hezbollah also wants a way out of a
larger conflict or would might be able
to take that chance and I just think
that um people who are calling for peace
uh are hoping that that prevails that
somebody finds some way to save face and
I I I was interested in the the idea
that Hezbollah has always said that
they're going to continue this until the
conflict in Gaza winds down and
ironically the moment that Netanyahu
announces that they're going to focus on
the northern border he also announces
that they're winding down the conflict
in Gaza so I'm just wondering if that
might be a way out that's obviously a
discussion for a whole new news desk so
bookmark that one come back to us next
week but that was just my final thought
thank you Ian really appreciate it thank
you to everyone for all your great
comments and questions um we very much
appreciate you we will see you next week
that's right we'll be back next
Wednesday we always put our question
question out about 24 hours ahead of
time so make sure that you check out our
community post so you know what that is
and then you'll be ready to tune in yeah
great thank you we'll see you next week
bye bye byebye
[Music]